Create 2022-JAN-11.md (#446)
JupiterOne/docs: release-notes/2022-JAN-11.md

# JupiterOne 2022.01.11 Release

January 11 2022

## AWS Integration

## Description

J1 has updated how it determines the AWS s3 bucket policy status to better align with what is presented in the AWS console. 

## Changes

JupiterOne has been using the [get-bucket-policy-status API](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/s3api/get-bucket-policy-status.html) to retrieve the s3 bucket policy status for public and private settings. However, we have seen inconsistencies in this data when compared to the AWS console.

The AWS console generates data through access analyzer and there is no public API that we can use to directly retrieve this data.

> JupiterOne has changed our logic so that it better aligns with the AWS console bucket access status. We believe this is a superior method to interpret AWS bucket access.

Reviewer: @ninetreats What is "this is a superior method" referring to?

Author: Superior to the API endpoint we have been using since it doesn't always match what is displayed in the AWS Console.

With this update, JupiterOne will now present:

* `public: true` when we definitively know that the s3 bucket is set to public per the bucket policy, ACLs, or the public block

* `public: false` when we definitively know that the s3 bucket is not public per the bucket policy, a review of the ACLs, or the public block

> * `public: undefined` when can not definivitely determine the bucket policy.  This happens when AWS Access is presented as `Objects can be public` and we have no definitive evidence proving public true or false, OR we cannot connect to the AWS API to retrieve bucket access information.

Reviewer 2: "cannot definitively determine the bucket public status."

Reviewer 2: I'm concerned about this suggesting that, in the cases where we have access to all the necessary information, an `undefined` value indicates uncertainty on our part. We are certain that the bucket is not public (`public: true`), and that it is not completely locked down (`public: false`), therefore "Object can be public".

How about:

```suggestion
* `public: undefined` when the bucket is not public but "Objects can be public", or when JupiterOne does not have permission to read bucket configurations (policy, ACL, and public access block).
```

@ndowmon reading the code, I'm unsure that we're handling the case where we don't get those bucket configuration resources. 🤔 The [calculation code](https://github.com/JupiterOne/jupiter-integration-aws/blob/b4224a00edfc9720bd7fbd07334ac08ca6d1a298/src/integration-aws/s3/calculateBucketStatus.ts#L89) will return "Objects can be public" if none of the configuration resources are available. The [code calling the calculation function](https://github.com/JupiterOne/jupiter-integration-aws/blob/b4224a00edfc9720bd7fbd07334ac08ca6d1a298/src/integration-aws/s3/synchronizer.ts#L226) does not handle this case either.

Additionally, we are adding the `access` property to present additional information when the status is not `public: true` or `public: false`. This property will allow a user to determine if there is a permission issue with JupiterOne's access (we believe this will be an edge case, but is possible) or if AWS is presenting `Objects can be public`.  The `access` property will be set to either `access = ‘Bucket and objects not public'` or `access = 'Only authorized users of this account'`.

> While we believe this update presents a significant improvement in understanding your bucket access settings, if you notice inconsistencies in your data, please let us know so that we can further tune and improve our logic.

Reviewer: We should be specific as to whom they should contact if there inconsistencies. We should provide an email address or something.

Reviewer 3: Agreed. We should direct them to their Customer Success Engineer if there are any questions or concerns.

Author: Sounds good.

Finally, the default behavior uses the account-level `publicAccessBlock` to evaulate the access policy.  Otherwise it will evaluate based on the bucket-level `publicAccessBlock`.

## Customer Impact

The `aws_s3_bucket.public` property will accurately reflect the public status of the bucket. The new `access` property indicates the same text shown in the AWS Console.

> J1 alerts you may have configured to monitor `aws_s3_bucket.public` may be triggered in cases where the value changes due to this improved analysis next time you use the J1 AWS integration.

Reviewer 2: To clarify that there will be no need for someone to take action ("use" the integration):

```suggestion
J1 alerts you may have configured to monitor `aws_s3_bucket.public` may be triggered next time the J1 AWS integration executes in cases where the value changes due to this improved analysis.
```
